For pragmatic considerations, the database has been divided into three principal periods: Stone Age, Bronze Age, and Iron Age. Each period contains both period-specific and general artefact categories and accordingly also period-specific and general variables. The general item categories are pottery, stone tools, bone tools, clay artefacts, and wooden artefacts. Period-specific categories include: amber implements are specific to Stone Age, and birch bark pitch occurrences to Stone and Bronze Age. Bronze objects are specific to Bronze and Iron Age. The Iron Age includes separate tables for iron artefacts, beads made of different materials, and silver and gold items (including a single Bronze Age gold item). Gold artefacts are extremely rare in Finland in the Iron Age, but bronze objects may have been gilded. These specific artefacts are included in the bronze category. Coins, which have occasionally been used as pendants, are included in the silver find category. In all categories, the presence of organic remains, such as textile, fur or wood fragments, was documented for future use in any scientific analyses. The AADA database is thematically organised into three MS Excel tables according to the prehistoric era: Stone Age, Bronze Age, and Iron Age periods (Fig x). Each row in the table represents a single artefact, while each column represents a specific variable or attribute, such as its type, period, site, and measurements. Moreover, each table contains spreadsheets based on artefact type (Fig x). For example, for the Stone Age period, there are separate tables for pottery, stone tools, clay artefacts, bone artefacts, wooden artefacts, amber, and birch bark tar. Similarly, for the Bronze Age period, there are separate tables for pottery, stone tools, clay artefacts, bone artefacts, wooden artefacts, and bronze objects. For the Iron Age period, there are separate tables for pottery, stone tools, clay artefacts, bone artefacts, wooden artefacts, bronze artefacts, iron artefacts, silver and golden artefacts, beads, and organic materials. In addition, due to differing recording procedure, the Iron Age table contains also a detailed spreadsheet of pottery and stone tools (where e.g. the dating is specified according to Iron Age periods).
